RECOVERING OF 24 MAY AVENUE IN THE HISTORICAL CENTER OF QUITO

What are the reasons preventing the recovery of 24 May Avenue in the historical center of Quito?


Authors:

Ivan Medina Carranco
ivan.medina@aecid.ec
Pedro Almagro Blanco
palmagroblanco@gmail.com
Elizabeth Regalado Bolanos
regaladoeli@gmail.com

Collaborators:

Cristian Naranjo
Ruben Tavora
Fredy Caisaguano
Francisco Javier Solis
Paulina Teran

Brief: 

The public investements performed in the historical center of Quito since 1981, has been increased until now. At the beggining this investements were oriented to religious centers and in 1987 were focused on recovering the historical center from a hard earthquake. The architechtonical interventions were performed mostly in the nuclear part of the historical center (Plaza de la Independencia and religious buildings), promoting the tourism mostly to this nuclear zone.

One of the big problems that Quito is facing now is the recovering of historical zones that, although are not in the nuclear zone of the historical center are considered cultural heritage. Emblematic zones under this situation are San Roque, La Libertad, La Marin and 24 May Avenue. 24 May Avenue is the most representative zone of this group because is next to the nuclear historical center and there were architectonical investments to prepare this zone for the tourism.

Despite efforts done by local and central goverments tourists are not visiting the 24 May Avenue. The main problem that avoid tourism to visit this zone is prostitution, this zone is a traditional place for the prostitutes to work, this fact is connected with the proliferation of "negative commerces" that host prostitution services. In the area under study, many people has created hotels oriented to host tourism, but after a while they realized that there is no enough tourism in the area to mantain the service and they decide to become their hotels "negative commerces" in order to host prostitution services, this behaviour generates a vicious circle that avoids tourists to visit the 24 May Avenue.
